The presence of treatment effect heterogeneity, combined with non-representative samples, makes intervention effectiveness evaluations less informative to policy-makers who seek to make evidence-based decisions in populations that are outside of the study sample. 

will be limited to certain assumptions and simplifications. For instance, whether or not a school participates in a study is a complex and multifaceted decision, which we will simplify to a linear combination of demographic variables. Convenience sampling is also a complicated and poorly defined method for selecting a sample. Whether or not researchers approach a school may hinge on geographic proximity to the researcher, past relationships with administrators, features of the school district or surrounding city, or any combination of these and others predictors. Despite these two caveats, we feel that this study may still give us an insight into the relative performance of sampling methods.


However, this depends on some knowledge of recruiter and participant behavior which is fairly limited in the current literature. The models we propose are by no means comprehensive, instead they serve as a first step into this line of research. 

It is important to note that some of these characteristics might also make it more likely that researchers would recruit these districts and schools in the first place. That is to say, school characteristics may drive selection bias by both impacting the types of schools that agree to participate, as well as by the types of schools that researchers recruit. For instance, the over-representation of larger schools in RCTs can mean that schools with more students are: (a) more likely to agree to participate, (b) more likely to be recruited by researchers, or (c) some combination of both (a) and (b). Therefore, the participation behavior outlined here is likely not representative of all schools in the US, rather only schools that are likely to be recruited by current practices.

 For instance, the difference between two schools with 4000 and 3000 students was weighed as much as the difference between two schools with 400 and 300 students when generating clusters. 

Given that our covariates included categorical variabes, we first computed a dissimilarity matrix per @tiptonStratifiedSamplingUsing2013's original recommendation, which necessitated the use of k-medoids instead of k-means. 

Next we used the _pam_ function to generate clusters, which employs an optimization algorithm to classify sites into $k$ clusters by minimizing the total within cluster variance. This function also requires two parameters: (1) the distance matrix from the previous step, and (2) the number of clusters to generate ($k$). 



# Stratified Balanced Sampling

 Specifically, similarity here  is defined as balance on a set of covariates that potentially explain variation in treatment effects. The multi-step process includes dividing the population into smaller homogeneous subgroups, prioritizing units representative of each subgroup for sampling, and refreshing the priority list after each round of recruitment. As such, SBS is an iterative process requiring collaboration between researchers and recruiters.  

In this section we demonstrate SBS within the context of selecting schools for a large-scale MRT. This application will also serve as the basis for the subsequent simulation study. SBS is a flexible method that is adaptable to various data sets and, depending on study circumstances and design, may require different strategies or methods than presented here. For a more complete description and discussion of SBS, see @tiptonStratifiedSamplingUsing2013. 

SBS applies cluster analysis as a dimension reduction technique to drive bias-robust balanced sampling based on a large set of covariates. The ultimate goal is to select a sample that is representative of a population with respect to a set of covariates related to treatment heterogeneity and site participation. This process requires the availability of a rich data set of observed covariates for each site in the population. We therefore begin by discussing the data which will serve as the sampling frame and the covariates we have selected. 

After generating the strata, we then use a second distance metric to rank sites within each stratum in order of within stratum representation. These ranks are later used to drive "balanced sampling" by prioritizing sites for recruitment. In practice, these rankings should encourage the selection of sites from subsets of the population which may otherwise not have been included given typical sampling strategies.

Finally, we discuss the advantages and limitations of SBS given our implementation, and the potential difficulties of using this to sample schools in the greater context of educational research.

